.pc
.TH STATIST 1 "September 2006" "Version 1.4.1" "STATIST Manual Page"
.SH NAME
statist \- statistics program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B statist
[ options ] data_file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR statist
is a terminal-based statistics program with an interactive menu that makes it
very easy to use. It can also be run in scripts and big datasets are handled
reasonably well even on small machines. In spite of its low overhead statist
can do quite a bunch of regression functions and tests. It can produce
colorized output and uses gnuplot to create graphics.

.SH OPTIONS
.l
statist accepts the following command line options:
.TP 9
.B \-h, \-?, \-\-help
Print a short help message and exit.
.TP 9
.B \-\-quiet, \-\-silent
Don't print menu etc. (for batch/script usage).
.TP 9
.B \-\-log
Write results to log file `statist.log'.
.TP 9
.B \-\-nofile
Don't read a data file when starting the program.
.TP 9
.B \-\-nobell
No beep at errors and warnings.
.TP 9
.B \-\-thist
Histogram as text graphic instead of gnuplot-graphic.
.TP 9
.B \-\-noplot
No gnuplot-graphic.
.TP 9
.B \-\-color
Colorized output.
.TP 9
.B \-\-labels \fIfile\fP
Read column titles and value labels from \fIfile\fP.
.TP 9
.B \-\-header
the file has column names in the first line
.TP 9
.B \-\-noheader
the file does not have column names
.TP 9
.B \-\-sep \fIchar\fP
field separator character
.TP 9
.B \-\-dec \fIchar\fP
decimal delimiter character (default: '.')
.TP 9
.B \-\-na-string \fIstring\fP
indicator of missing values (default: "\fIM\fP")
.TP 9
.B \-\-xcols \fIconf_file\fP \fIfixed_width_datafile\fP \fIdest_file\fP
Extract columns from a fixed width data file. The content of a
\fIconf\_file\fP is simply a list of variable names and their position
in the fixed width data file
.TP 9
.B \-\-xsample \fIpercentage\fP \fIdata_base\fP \fIdest_file\fP
Extract a sample of rows from a file; \fIpercentage\fP must be an integer
number between 1 and 99.
.TP 9
.B \-\-bernhard
Special output changes from Bernhard, i.e.:
  \- table output at Miscellaneous/Standard deviation
  \- if \-\-noplot defined no text histogram at
    Miscellaneous/Standard
    deviation
.SH FILES
.PP
.IP "~/.statistrc"
User configuration file.
.IP "/etc/statistrc"
System-wide configuration file.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <statist-list@intevation.de>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co Dirk Melcher 1997-1999
.br
Copyright \(co Bernhard Reiter 1998-2006
.br
Copyright \(co Jakson Aquino 2005-2006
.br
STATIST comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; it is Free Software under GNU GPL.
See
.B /usr/share/doc/statist/copyright
for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR gnuplot (1),
.BR awk (1),
.BR sort (1),
.BR join (1)
.PP
Statist 
.B Homepage:
http://statist.wald.intevation.org/
.PP
The Statist 
.B User Manual
(English and Portuguese):
.br
/usr/share/doc/statist or /usr/local/share/doc/statist
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This man page was written by Jakson Aquino.
